exclusion filter by attributes & refurbish (#6413)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/logs/indexes/_index.md

  text: "Logging without Limits*"
---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

{{< img src="logs/indexes/multi_index.png" alt="Multi indexes"  style="width:70%;">}}

Use drag and drop on the list of indexes to reorder them.

## Exclusion Filters

By default, logs indexes come without exclusion filter: meaning all logs matching the [Index Filter](#indexes-filters) are eventually indexed.

But because your logs are not all and equally valuable, and because some logs are useful only under some circumstances, exclusion filters control which logs flowing in are eventually indexed. Excluded logs are discarded from indexes, but would still flow through the [Livetail][12], [Metrics Generation][13] and/or [Archives][14].

Add as many exclusion filters as you need to control your flow. Exclusion filters come with a query, a sampling rule and a active/inactive toggle:

* Default **query** is `*`, meaning all logs flowing in the index (that is to say logs that matched the index filter). Scope down exclusion filter to only a subset of the logs if you need finer control.  

> * Default **sampling rule** is `Exclude 100% of logs` matching the query. Adapt sampling rate from 0% to 100%, and decide if the sampling rate applies on individual logs, or group of logs defined by the unique values of any attribute. . 

Author: nope, I disagree

> * Default **toggle** is active, meaning the logs flowing in are actually discarded according to the rule. Toggle this to inactive to ignore this exclusion filter for new logs flowing in the index. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Default **toggle** is active, meaning logs flowing in the index are actually discarded according to the exclusion filter configuration. Toggle this to inactive to ignore this exclusion filter for new logs flowing in the index. 
```

> As for Index Filters, logs will be processed by the only first **active** exclusion filter they match. Which means that order matters: use drag and drop to reorder exclusion filter accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: As for Index Filters, logs are excluded by the first **active** exclusion filter they match, use drag and drop on the list of exclusion filters to reorder them according to your use-case.
```

{{< img src="logs/indexes/reorder_index_filters.png" alt="reorder index filters"  style="width:80%;">}}

> ### Examples of Exclusion Filters

Reviewer: We should add H4 titles on each examples to ease search and SEO.

> You don't need your DEBUG logs... until you actually need them when your platform undergoes an incident, or want to carefully observe the deployment of a critical version of your application. Setup a 100% exclusion filter on the `status:DEBUG`, and toggle it on and off from UI or [API] when required.

Reviewer: The link to the API is missing.

```suggestion
You don't need your DEBUG logs... until you actually need them when your platform undergoes an incident, or want to carefully observe the deployment of a critical version of your application. Setup a 100% exclusion filter on the `status:DEBUG`, and toggle it on and off from Datadog UI or through the [API] when required.
```

Reviewer 2: Do we need a link on [API] ?

Reviewer 2: Also, "you don't need" seems a bit strong, should we rephrase with something like `you might not need` ?

{{< img src="logs/indexes/enable_index_filters.png" alt="enable index filters"  style="width:80%;">}}

> You don't need to keep track of every single web access server log generated. Index all 3xx, 4xx and 5xx logs, but exclude 95% of the 2xx logs `source:nginx http.status_code:[200 TO 299]` to keep track of the trends. Pro tip, summarize these web access logs into a meaningful KPI with a [custom metric generated from logs][14], counting number of requests and tagged by status code, [browser][17] and [country][16].

Reviewer: When the GS on LwL is live we should add a link here

```suggestion
Let's say now that you don't want to keep all logs from your web access server requests. You could choose to index all 3xx, 4xx, and 5xx logs, but exclude 95% of the 2xx logs: `source:nginx AND http.status_code:[200 TO 299]` to keep track of the trends. 
Pro tip, transform these web access logs into meaningful KPIs with a [metric generated from your logs][14], counting number of requests and tagged by status code, [browser][17] and [country][16].
```

{{< img src="logs/indexes/sample_200.png" alt="enable index filters"  style="width:80%;">}}

> You have millions of users connecting to your marketplace everyday. And although you don't need obersability on every single user, you still want to keep the full picture for the one you'll observe. Set up an exclusion filter applying to all logs (`*`) and exclude logs for 90% of the `@http.user_id`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have millions of users connecting to your marketplace everyday. And although you don't need observability on every single user, you still want to keep the full picture for some. Set up an exclusion filter applying to all logs (`*`) and exclude logs for 90% of the `@http.user_id`:
```

{{< img src="logs/indexes/sample_user_id.png" alt="enable index filters"  style="width:80%;">}}

> You use APM in conjunction with Logs, thanks to [Trace ID injection in logs][10]. As for users, you don't need to keep all your logs, but making sure logs always give the full picture of a Trace is critical for troubleshooting. Set up an exclusion filter applying to logs from your instrumented service (`service:my_python_app`) and exclude logs for 50% of the `Trace ID` - make sure you use the [Trace ID remapper][18] upstream in your pipelines. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You use APM in conjunction with Logs, thanks to [trace ID injection in logs][10]. As for users, you don't need to keep all your logs, but making sure logs always give the full picture to a trace is critical for troubleshooting. 
Set up an exclusion filter applying to logs from your instrumented service (`service:my_python_app`) and exclude logs for 50% of the `Trace ID` - make sure to use the [trace ID remapper][18] upstream in your pipelines. 
```

## Indexes

By default, Log Explorer have one unique Log Index, but datadog also offers multiple indexes if you require:

* Multiple retention periods and/or multiple [daily quotas](#set-daily-quota), for finer budget control.
* Multiple permissions, for finer user [role based access controls (RBAC)][7].

<div class="alert alert-info">
The multi-index feature is in private beta, <a href="/help">contact Datadog support</a> to turn it on for your account.
</div>

## Indexes Filters

Index filters allow dynamic control over which logs flow into which indexes.  For example, if you create a first index filtered on the `status:notice` attribute, a second index filtered to the `status:error` attribute, and a final one without any filter (the equivalent of `*`), all your `status:notice` logs would go to the first index, all your `status:error` logs to the second index, and the rest would go to the final one.

{{< img src="logs/indexes/multi_index.png" alt="Multi indexes"  style="width:70%;">}}

**Note**: **Logs enter the first index whose filter they match on**, use drag and drop on the list of indexes to reorder them according to your use-case.

## Exclusion Filters

> By default, logs indexes have no exclusion filter: meaning all logs matching the [Index Filter](#indexes-filters) are indexed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, logs indexes have no exclusion filter meaning all logs matching the [Index Filter](#indexes-filters) are indexed.
```

> By default, logs indexes have no exclusion filter: meaning all logs matching the [Index Filter](#indexes-filters) are indexed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, logs indexes have no exclusion filter: that is to say all logs matching the Index Filter are indexed.
```

> But because your logs are not all and equally valuable; exclusion filters control which logs flowing in your index should be removed. Excluded logs are discarded from indexes, but still flow through the [Livetail][8] and can be used to [generate metrics][9] and [archived][10].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
But because your logs are not all and equally valuable, exclusion filters control which logs flowing in your index should be removed. Excluded logs are discarded from indexes, but still flow through the [Livetail][8] and can be used to [generate metrics][9] and [archived][10].
```

Exclusion filters are defined by a query, a sampling rule, and a active/inactive toggle:

* Default **query** is `*`, meaning all logs flowing in the index would be excluded. Scope down exclusion filter to only a subset of logs [with a log query][11].
* Default **sampling rule** is `Exclude 100% of logs` matching the query. Adapt sampling rate from 0% to 100%, and decide if the sampling rate applies on individual logs, or group of logs defined by the unique values of any attribute.
* Default **toggle** is active, meaning logs flowing in the index are actually discarded according to the exclusion filter configuration. Toggle this to inactive to ignore this exclusion filter for new logs flowing in the index.

**Note**: As for Index Filters, logs are excluded by the first **active** exclusion filter they match, use drag and drop on the list of exclusion filters to reorder them according to your use-case.

{{< img src="logs/indexes/reorder_index_filters.png" alt="reorder index filters"  style="width:80%;">}}

### Examples of Exclusion Filters

#### Switch off, switch on

> You might not need your DEBUG logs... until you actually need them when your platform undergoes an incident, or want to carefully observe the deployment of a critical version of your application. Setup a 100% exclusion filter on the `status:DEBUG`, and toggle it on and off from Datadog UI or through the [API][19] when required.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You might not need your DEBUG logs until you actually need them when your platform undergoes an incident, or want to carefully observe the deployment of a critical version of your application. Setup a 100% exclusion filter on the `status:DEBUG`, and toggle it on and off from Datadog UI or through the [API][19] when required.
```

> You might not need your DEBUG logs... until you actually need them when your platform undergoes an incident, or want to carefully observe the deployment of a critical version of your application. Setup a 100% exclusion filter on the `status:DEBUG`, and toggle it on and off from Datadog UI or through the [API][19] when required.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You may not need your `DEBUG` logs until you actually need them, like when your platform undergoes an incident or you want to carefully observe the deployment of a critical version of your application. Setup a 100% exclusion filter on the `status:DEBUG`, and toggle it on and off in the Datadog UI or through the [API][19] when required.
```

{{< img src="logs/indexes/enable_index_filters.png" alt="enable index filters"  style="width:80%;">}}

#### Keep an eye on trends

> Let's say now that you don't want to keep all logs from your web access server requests. You could choose to index all 3xx, 4xx, and 5xx logs, but exclude 95% of the 2xx logs: `source:nginx AND http.status_code:[200 TO 299]` to keep track of the trends.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Let's say now you don't want to keep all logs from your web access server requests. You could choose to index all 3xx, 4xx, and 5xx logs, but exclude 95% of the 2xx logs: `source:nginx AND http.status_code:[200 TO 299]` to keep track of the trends.
```

> Pro tip, transform these web access logs into meaningful KPIs with a [metric generated from your logs][10], counting number of requests and tagged by status code, [browser][12] and [country][13].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Tip**: Transform web access logs into meaningful KPIs with a [metric generated from your logs][10], counting number of requests and tagged by status code, [browser][12] and [country][13].
```

{{< img src="logs/indexes/sample_200.png" alt="enable index filters"  style="width:80%;">}}

#### Sampling consistently with higher-level entities

You have millions of users connecting to your marketplace everyday. And although you don't need observability on every single user, you still want to keep the full picture for some. Set up an exclusion filter applying to all production logs (`env:production`) and exclude logs for 90% of the `@user.email`:

{{< img src="logs/indexes/sample_user_id.png" alt="enable index filters"  style="width:80%;">}}

> You use APM in conjunction with Logs, thanks to [trace ID injection in logs][14]. As for users, you don't need to keep all your logs, but making sure logs always give the full picture to a trace is critical for troubleshooting.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can use APM in conjunction with Logs, thanks to [trace ID injection in logs][14]. As for users, you don't need to keep all your logs but making sure logs always give the full picture to a trace is critical for troubleshooting.
```

> Set up an exclusion filter applying to logs from your instrumented service (`service:my_python_app`) and exclude logs for 50% of the `Trace ID` - make sure to use the [trace ID remapper][15] upstream in your pipelines.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Set up an exclusion filter applied to logs from your instrumented service (`service:my_python_app`) and exclude logs for 50% of the `Trace ID` - make sure to use the [trace ID remapper][15] upstream in your pipelines.
```

{{< img src="logs/indexes/sample_trace_id.png" alt="enable index filters"  style="width:80%;">}}

## Set daily quota

> You can set a daily quota to hard-limit the number of logs that are stored within an Index per day. This quota is applied for all logs that should have been stored (i.e after exclusion filters are applied).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can set a daily quota to hard-limit the number of logs that are stored within an Index per day. This quota is applied for all logs that should have been stored (i.e. after exclusion filters are applied).
```
